Journal Week 9

As our lectures are coming to an end and we begin to start our final projects, I think back over my projects from the last
9 weeks and remember 2 moments in particular. 

First, was a moment where I felt like I was really able to apply the knowledge I learning.  That was when we were building a 
calculator.  It sounds a lot easier than you may think, but thinking through the logic to implement what a calculator really 
does was quite a struggle.  You need to determine if the user is entering his first number, second number or operator. 
Then you need to apply the proper math based on what they have entered. We first did the assignment in Objective-c, then 
later we were given the same assignment to do in Swift.  I felt pretty good when I was able to have the display give out 
the correct results and perform the basic calculations when I did it in Objective-C, but it was when we redid the 
assignment in Swift that I was able to put all of the calulation functions into their own class, or what we  called 
"the brain" and have all of the business logic seperate from the controller that manages the view.  It really was a defining 
moment for me as a developer to really grab ahold of this concept!

Second, was a moment that was really frustrating. We were to build a word search puzzle that generated a puzzle given
certain criteria and send that data to an api that would return to us a list of letters that we would take and form into a
puzzle grid that the user could search for hidden words.  The frustrating part for this exercise was not getting the 
puzzle to show on the screen, but getting back the as something I could tell the system what to do with. I spent hours and 
hours testing my data by printing to the console, but it never would quite return in the format I could use.  I could see all
of the letters I needed to use to show on my grid and had the functions written to make the grid, but I just could not 
figure out how to tell the system "These are the letters!!! Take them and use them please!!!!". I tried to get creative and
make work arounds to parse the returning letters into strings I could use, but this just took a bad situation and made it
worse!  I finally decided that the data was just not gooing to format properly and decided to at least display "a puzzle"
even if it meant I had to "hard code" it, or manually put in the charaters to feed to my functions that display the letters.
I really thought I was going to be able to make the leap and get it all work, but Sunday night came along and I just ran out
of time.  It was so frustrating to feel like I had all the pieces I need but not be able to show the result that I knew
existed.

I'm sure I will encounter more of these scenarios in real world developer problems and hope my frustration does not override
my moments of inspiration.  I want to thrive upon my successes and learn from my failures and keep that mindset through
the next 3 weeks as I create a full working project that will hopefully be fully functional not to mention hopefully impressive!
